The End of an Era
The ownership of the Alfa had given me a chance to try out other cars and marks with various
impressions. I wasn't to know it at the time but my next choice would be my last company
car. One car supplied to me while the Alfa was resting was a Mercedes saloon, a not particularly
exciting one but I had been impressed with the comfort, power and build quality. So when
it came the time to make my next choice I went into the Mercedes showroom in Sussex
to look at the array of gleaming machinery on offer. Among the wide choice of strange
bulbous A-glasses and large saloons, estate cars and posing style convertibles was a new
four-seater two-door hatchback coupe simply named the C-Class Coupe. My wife had admired
an S-Class Coupe in another corner of the showroom and coming over to the one I was
looking at that was some tens of thousands of pounds nearer the spending allowance my
company was wasting on me, she immediately said this one's a better colour. So we sat
in it, established the hatchback boot could accompany our dog without the need to try
it as he wasn't of a wolfhound's physique being a collie cross. The next week the garage
was generous enough to lend me a demonstrator model overnight and I was impressed. Performance
felt sporty but more refined than the more aggressive alpha which had a higher power
output and I suspect was lighter. Checking this I found the curb weights are 1330kg of
the alpha to 1480kg of the Mercedes and a higher brake horsepower for the alpha of 190
to the Mercedes 163. The sensation of speed was increased in the higher rev in Italian
by the exhaust noise. The engine in the Mercedes was a smaller 2 litre compressor petrol unit
with the air to the engine being I was told supercharged. Unfortunately the engine itself
looked like a central heating boiler and was a let down after the alpha of Isolée but
then the bonnet was only ever opened to top up the washer so the disappointment was infrequent.
To reach my allocated budget I was able to specify a large electric glass roof which
made the interior lighter. I also ordered the automatic gearbox which unfortunately
left no money from the Mercedes very expensive leather seats so these were a pleasant light
grey mixture in cloth. I was shortly to regret this when a red wine bottle incident with
the shopping left an embarrassing stain on the rear seat and caused a faulty seatbelt
warning message due to the liquid getting to the sensor. The sympathetic dealer sorted
both out and I think that was the sum total of mishaps in the car. The car was attractive
but less showy and less dangerous to drive than the alpha and it didn't seem to upset
any of the company hierarchy by being in the company car park. It was to be my last company
car and maybe in the final year of my employment I had conformed and chosen a dark colour German
car like many others there although it was a previously outlawed two door with a glass roof.
It was pleasant to drive, roomy for a coupé so when I took early retirement I considered buying
it off the company. The combination of a higher residual value coupled with the knowledge of being
driven as a company car, see above about opening the bonnet to check the oil, eventually persuaded
me against this course of action. Another Mercedes, a Mercedes 300 CE Coupé. I retired early and
wasn't yet ready for pensioners car and already having entered the dangerously seductive world
of classic car ownership I started to research whether it would be possible to own a future classic
that would give the benefits of a modern vehicle. My conclusion was this dual purpose could be
provided by Mercedes 300 CE, a large pillarless coupé in deep midnight blue metallic colour with
a 3.0-litre 24 valve engine and uprated to include remote entry alarm and CD multiplier to add to
the list of factory fitted extras. These included an electric steel sunroof, a full leather interior,
automatic gearbox of traction control, headlamp washers, seatbelt arms that slid out electrically
when the door was closed because of the lack of central pillar. The car when new cost over £50,000
which would be approximately £90,000 in present-day money and its solidity and power felt like it.
It cost me £5,000 and felt like a bargain. It was fast and comfortable long-distance cruiser,
we even had a whole day in France in it, something I never did in the Espace. The spec was impressive
and for its time must have been close to the pinnacle of auto refinement. It couldn't be described
as economical but that was the payback for the power and weight. The engine output was rated at
220bhp with acceleration to 60 in under 8 seconds and a claimed top speed of 145mph. It wasn't so
popular with the rest of the household including the dog who slid around on the leather seats and
wasn't impressed by the visibility of the coupe styling, although the electric seatbelt feeds seemed
to intrigue him. In retirement I was doing a little bit of consultancy working involving travelling
around the country so I was able to enjoy driving it without complaints from either of the passengers,
canine or otherwise.
Gallic madness. My second car bought in retirement was an even rarer creature, a Renault Aventime.
This has been quoted as an example of a concept car being put into production and quoted by others
as the product of a rush of Gallic blood to the brain that should have been resisted. In retrospect
it frankly was quite bonkers but when I first saw one I wanted to own it and I'm not really sure
why. The concept was to create a four-seater luxury tourer that was around the size and similar body
shape, a teardrop monoblock, to the Renault Spouse Pipera carrier. But by lowering the suspension,
installing the 3.0-litre six-cylinder engine, they'd created an early sports utility vehicle.
The concept car design included two large cantilever-style doors that moved away from
the car body before swinging open. The cabin was particularly light and airy with pillarless
side windows and two huge glass sunroofs, one of which opened and both able to be shielded
by electric fabric blinds. The idea of a pillarless four-seater with a large open sunroof may have
been conceived for posing along the Corniches in the south of France but the buffeting from the wind
coupled with the ready availability of exhaust fumes on the roads in Sussex tempered the enjoyment
of this. Although the global closing function where all four windows and roof would close at
a single touch of a button was a nice party trick. Similarly the choice of engine giving 220 brake
horsepower to the front wheels also gave a certain amount of excitement with the power being beyond
the handling of the car. There was a claimed top speed of 140 miles an hour which I think would be
terrifying although it would be very tempting to overtake a lowly slung sports car on the autobahn
at that speed whilst looking down through the large windows from your leather armchairs. The
interior was as futuristic as the exterior with the dashboard being relatively minimalistic.
For the time 2002 the car was luxurious and very well equipped with parking sensors,
sat-nav system, huge glass roof with electric blinds, cruise control, headlamp washers,
electric heated seats in tan leather, climate control and a good music system. The music
system was hidden behind a dampened lid and except multiple CDs which it swallowed one after the other
into the bowels of the car. Music could be controlled by the steering column or by a remote
control handset, very Gaelic. All the controls were in odd places, the climate control near the front
right hand side of the driver on top of the dashboard with the passenger override on the
passenger side. The switches for the heated seats and door mirrors were both somewhere else and many
of the controls and positions didn't seem intuitive so that coupled with the surprising power for such
a high vehicle made the driving experience a strange one. Again as with some other cars I've
acquired I like to think it was a bargain. When new it retailed at close to £30,000 but after
just three years the price had dropped like a stone to the £8,000 I paid for it. I'm afraid that at
that time there were some inherent electrical problems with Renaults namely the coil sets which
appeared to be fancy plug leads so that the car would occasionally shut down power to one cylinder
and go into low power limp home mode. Reading posts on the friendly Aventime Owners Forum
revealed this to be a relatively common problem so much so that I carried a spare coil set in the car.
After experiencing this three times myself I reluctantly felt that after less than two years
ownership the car had to go. It seemed a shame as it was the only other car that I'd had along
with the split screen VW that it was expecting not just to wave to each other but to stop and
have a conversation and this happened to me a couple of times. I'm sure it would also have
happened with the Volvo ES but I can't remember ever seeing another one whilst I was driving it.
I guess with total production worldwide of 6,000 it was also unlikely. I was told that only 200
Aventimes are sold in the UK market so I was probably statistically unlikely to meet many.
I would like to say that the Aventime is the most eccentric and rarest mode of transport that I'd
owned but sadly this isn't true. It was possibly mainstream compared to the Carabao. I understand
that the car was futuristic enough to be used in the sci-fi film Children of Men and some were
destroyed in the production reducing the 200 total even more.